docs/docsite/rst/userguide/index.rst, before:

.. _ug_start:

===================
Automating with Ascender
===================

Learn how to use Ascender functionality to scale and manage your automation.
This guide assumes moderate familiarity with Ansible, including concepts such as **Playbooks**, **Variables**, and **Tags**.

This guide applies to the latest version of Ascender only.
The content in this guide is updated frequently and might contain functionality that is not available in previous versions.
Likewise content in this guide can be removed or replaced if it applies to functionality that is no longer available in the latest version.

**Join us online**

We talk about Ascender documentation on Matrix at `#docs:ansible.im <https://matrix.to/#/#docs:ansible.im>`_ and on libera IRC at ``#ansible-docs`` if you ever want to join us and chat about the docs!

You can also find lots of Ascender discussion and get answers to questions at `forum.ansible.com <https://forum.ansible.com/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:

   self
   overview
   logging_in
   main_menu
   search_sort
   organizations
   users
   teams
   rbac
   credentials
   credential_types
   credential_plugins
   applications_auth
   execution_environments
   ee_reference
   projects
   project-sign
   inventories
   inventory_plugins_templates
   job_templates
   job_slices
   workflows
   workflow_templates
   instance_groups
   jobs
   webhooks
   notifications
   notification_parameters_supported
   scheduling
   insights
   best_practices
   security
   glossary

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/docsite/rst/userguide/index.rst, after:

.. _ug_start:

===================
Automating with climber
===================

Learn how to use climber functionality to scale and manage your automation.
This guide assumes moderate familiarity with Ansible, including concepts such as **Playbooks**, **Variables**, and **Tags**.

This guide applies to the latest version of climber only.
The content in this guide is updated frequently and might contain functionality that is not available in previous versions.
Likewise content in this guide can be removed or replaced if it applies to functionality that is no longer available in the latest version.

**Join us online**

We talk about climber documentation on Matrix at `#docs:ansible.im <https://matrix.to/#/#docs:ansible.im>`_ and on libera IRC at ``#ansible-docs`` if you ever want to join us and chat about the docs!

You can also find lots of climber discussion and get answers to questions at `forum.ansible.com <https://forum.ansible.com/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:

   self
   overview
   logging_in
   main_menu
   search_sort
   organizations
   users
   teams
   rbac
   credentials
   credential_types
   credential_plugins
   applications_auth
   execution_environments
   ee_reference
   projects
   project-sign
   inventories
   inventory_plugins_templates
   job_templates
   job_slices
   workflows
   workflow_templates
   instance_groups
   jobs
   webhooks
   notifications
   notification_parameters_supported
   scheduling
   insights
   best_practices
   security
   glossary
