docs/development/minikube.md, before:

# Running Development Environment in Kubernetes

## Start Minikube

If you do not already have Minikube, install it from:
https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/

Note: This environment has only been tested on Linux.

```
$ minikube start \
    --mount \
    --mount-string="/path/to/awx:/awx_devel" \
    --cpus=4 \
    --memory=8g \
    --addons=ingress
```

### Verify

Ensure that your Ascender source code is properly mounted inside of the minikube node:

```
$ minikube ssh
$ ls -la /awx_devel
```

## Deploy the AWX Operator

Clone the [awx-operator](https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator).

For the following playbooks to work, you will need to:

```
$ pip install openshift
```

If you are not changing any code in the operator itself, git checkout the latest version from https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator/releases, and then follow the instructions in the awx-operator [README](https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator#basic-install).

If making changes to the operator itself, run the following command in the root
of the awx-operator repo. If not, continue to the next section.

### Building and Deploying a Custom AWX Operator Image

```
# in awx-operator repo on the branch you want to use
$ export IMAGE_TAG_BASE=quay.io/<username>/awx-operator
$ export VERSION=<custom-tag>
$ make docker-build
$ docker push ${IMAGE_TAG_BASE}:${VERSION}
```

## Deploy Ascender into Minikube using the AWX Operator

If have have not made any changes to the Ascender Dockerfile, run the following
command. If you need to test out changes to the Dockerfile, see the
"Custom Ascender Development Image for Kubernetes" section below.

In the root of awx-operator:

```
$ ansible-playbook ansible/instantiate-awx-deployment.yml \
    -e development_mode=yes \
    -e image=ghcr.io/ansible/awx_kube_devel \
    -e image_version=devel \
    -e image_pull_policy=Always \
    -e service_type=nodeport \
    -e namespace=$NAMESPACE
```
Check the operator with the following commands:

```
# Check the operator deployment
$ kubectl get deployments
NAME                              READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
awx                               1/1     1            1           16h
awx-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           16h

$ kubectl get pods
NAME                                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
awx-operator-controller-manager-b775bfc7c-fn995   2/2     Running   0          16h
```

If there are errors in the image pull, check that it is using the right tag. You can update the tag that it will pull by editing the deployment.

### Custom Ascender Development Image for Kubernetes

I have found `minikube cache add` to be unacceptably slow for larger images such
as this. A faster workflow involves building the image and pushing it to a
registry:

In the root of the Ascender repo:

```
$ make awx-kube-dev-build
$ docker push ghcr.io/ansible/awx_kube_devel:${COMPOSE_TAG}
```

In the root of awx-operator:

```
$ ansible-playbook ansible/instantiate-awx-deployment.yml \
    -e development_mode=yes \
    -e image=ghcr.io/ansible/awx_kube_devel \
    -e image_version=${COMPOSE_TAG} \
    -e image_pull_policy=Always \
    -e service_type=nodeport \
    -e namespace=$NAMESPACE
```

To iterate on changes to the Dockerfile, rebuild and push the image, then delete
the Ascender Pod. A new Pod will respawn with the latest revision.

## Accessing Ascender

To access via the web browser, run the following command:
```
$ minikube service awx-service --url
```

To retrieve your admin password
```
$ kubectl get secrets awx-admin-password -o json | jq '.data.password' | xargs | base64 -d
```

To tail logs from the containers
```
# Find the awx pod name
kubectl get pods
NAME                                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
awx-56fbfbb6c8-jkhzl                              4/4     Running   0          13h
awx-operator-controller-manager-b775bfc7c-fn995   2/2     Running   0          16h
awx-postgres-0                                    1/1     Running   0          16h

# now you know the pod name, tail logs from task container in pod
kubectl logs -f awx-56fbfbb6c8-jkhzl -n awx  -c awx-task

# alternatively, or in a different window tail logs from the web container in pod
kubectl logs -f awx-56fbfbb6c8-jkhzl -n awx  -c awx-web
```

To exec in to the container:
```
# Using same pod name we found above from "kubectl get pods"
$ kubectl exec -it awx-56fbfbb6c8-k6p82 -c awx-task bash
```

The application will live reload when files are edited just like in the development environment. Just like in the development environment, if the application totally crashes because files are invalid syntax or other fatal problem, you will get an error like "no python application" in the web container. Delete the whole control plane pod and wait until a new one spins up automatically.
```
$ kubectl delete pod awx-56fbfbb6c8-k6p82
```

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/development/minikube.md, after:

# Running Development Environment in Kubernetes

## Start Minikube

If you do not already have Minikube, install it from:
https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/

Note: This environment has only been tested on Linux.

```
$ minikube start \
    --mount \
    --mount-string="/path/to/awx:/awx_devel" \
    --cpus=4 \
    --memory=8g \
    --addons=ingress
```

### Verify

Ensure that your climber source code is properly mounted inside of the minikube node:

```
$ minikube ssh
$ ls -la /awx_devel
```

## Deploy the AWX Operator

Clone the [awx-operator](https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator).

For the following playbooks to work, you will need to:

```
$ pip install openshift
```

If you are not changing any code in the operator itself, git checkout the latest version from https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator/releases, and then follow the instructions in the awx-operator [README](https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator#basic-install).

If making changes to the operator itself, run the following command in the root
of the awx-operator repo. If not, continue to the next section.

### Building and Deploying a Custom AWX Operator Image

```
# in awx-operator repo on the branch you want to use
$ export IMAGE_TAG_BASE=quay.io/<username>/awx-operator
$ export VERSION=<custom-tag>
$ make docker-build
$ docker push ${IMAGE_TAG_BASE}:${VERSION}
```

## Deploy climber into Minikube using the AWX Operator

If have have not made any changes to the climber Dockerfile, run the following
command. If you need to test out changes to the Dockerfile, see the
"Custom climber Development Image for Kubernetes" section below.

In the root of awx-operator:

```
$ ansible-playbook ansible/instantiate-awx-deployment.yml \
    -e development_mode=yes \
    -e image=ghcr.io/ansible/awx_kube_devel \
    -e image_version=devel \
    -e image_pull_policy=Always \
    -e service_type=nodeport \
    -e namespace=$NAMESPACE
```
Check the operator with the following commands:

```
# Check the operator deployment
$ kubectl get deployments
NAME                              READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
awx                               1/1     1            1           16h
awx-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           16h

$ kubectl get pods
NAME                                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
awx-operator-controller-manager-b775bfc7c-fn995   2/2     Running   0          16h
```

If there are errors in the image pull, check that it is using the right tag. You can update the tag that it will pull by editing the deployment.

### Custom climber Development Image for Kubernetes

I have found `minikube cache add` to be unacceptably slow for larger images such
as this. A faster workflow involves building the image and pushing it to a
registry:

In the root of the climber repo:

```
$ make awx-kube-dev-build
$ docker push ghcr.io/ansible/awx_kube_devel:${COMPOSE_TAG}
```

In the root of awx-operator:

```
$ ansible-playbook ansible/instantiate-awx-deployment.yml \
    -e development_mode=yes \
    -e image=ghcr.io/ansible/awx_kube_devel \
    -e image_version=${COMPOSE_TAG} \
    -e image_pull_policy=Always \
    -e service_type=nodeport \
    -e namespace=$NAMESPACE
```

To iterate on changes to the Dockerfile, rebuild and push the image, then delete
the climber Pod. A new Pod will respawn with the latest revision.

## Accessing climber

To access via the web browser, run the following command:
```
$ minikube service awx-service --url
```

To retrieve your admin password
```
$ kubectl get secrets awx-admin-password -o json | jq '.data.password' | xargs | base64 -d
```

To tail logs from the containers
```
# Find the awx pod name
kubectl get pods
NAME                                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
awx-56fbfbb6c8-jkhzl                              4/4     Running   0          13h
awx-operator-controller-manager-b775bfc7c-fn995   2/2     Running   0          16h
awx-postgres-0                                    1/1     Running   0          16h

# now you know the pod name, tail logs from task container in pod
kubectl logs -f awx-56fbfbb6c8-jkhzl -n awx  -c awx-task

# alternatively, or in a different window tail logs from the web container in pod
kubectl logs -f awx-56fbfbb6c8-jkhzl -n awx  -c awx-web
```

To exec in to the container:
```
# Using same pod name we found above from "kubectl get pods"
$ kubectl exec -it awx-56fbfbb6c8-k6p82 -c awx-task bash
```

The application will live reload when files are edited just like in the development environment. Just like in the development environment, if the application totally crashes because files are invalid syntax or other fatal problem, you will get an error like "no python application" in the web container. Delete the whole control plane pod and wait until a new one spins up automatically.
```
$ kubectl delete pod awx-56fbfbb6c8-k6p82
```
