docs/debugging/debugging_misc.md, before:

Debugging
=========

SQL Debugging
-------------
Ascender includes a powerful tool for tracking slow queries across all of its Python processes.
As the Ascender user, run:

```
$ awx-manage profile_sql --threshold 2 --minutes 5
```

...where threshold is the max query time in seconds, and minutes it the number of minutes to record.
For the next five minutes (in this example), any Ascender Python process that generates a SQL query
that runs for >2s will be recorded in a `.sqlite` database in `/var/log/tower/profile`.

This is a useful tool for logging all queries at a per-process level, or filtering and searching for
queries within a certain code branch.  For example, if you observed that certain HTTP requests were
particularly slow, you could enable profiling, perform the slow request, and then search the log:

```
$ sqlite3 -column -header /var/log/tower/profile/uwsgi.sqlite
sqlite> .schema queries
CREATE TABLE queries (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
    version TEXT,             # the Ascender version
    pid INTEGER,              # the pid of the process
    stamp DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    argv REAL,                # argv of the process
    time REAL,                # time to run the query (in seconds)
    sql TEXT,                 # the actual query
    explain TEXT,             # EXPLAIN VERBOSE ... of the query
    bt TEXT                   # python stack trace that led to the query running
);
sqlite> SELECT time, sql FROM queries ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 1;
time        sql
----------  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.046       UPDATE "django_session" SET "session_data" = 'XYZ', "expire_date" = '2019-02-15T21:56:45.693290+00:00'::timestamptz WHERE "django_session"."session_key" = 'we9dumywgju4fulaxz3oki58zpxgmd6t'
```

Postgres Tracing Slow Queries
-----------------------------
Ensure that slow query logging is turned on in the Postgres config and that the log line prefix contains the application name parameter. Below is an example.

```
log_min_duration_statement = 500 # in ms
log_line_prefix = '< %m %a >' # timestamp, application name
```

We've made it easier to correlate postgres connections <--> the processes that is doing the query. For example, the following line is a log entry from a slow running `awx-manage` command. 

```
< 2021-04-21 12:42:10.307 UTC awx_1-1540765-/bin/awx-manage gather_analytics --dry-run -v 3 >LOG:  duration: 1211.270 ms  statement: SELECT MIN("main_jobevent"."id") AS "pk__min", MAX("main_jobevent"."id") AS "pk__max" FROM "main_jobevent" WHERE ("main_jobevent"."modified" >= '2021-03-24T12:42:08.846790+00:00'::timestamptz AND "main_jobevent"."modified" <= '2021-04-21T12:42:08.846790+00:00'::timestamptz)
```

The above entry was found in the log file `/var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_log/postgresql-Wed.log`

Note the `application_name` portion. This allows us to trace the query to the node `awx_1` with processes id `1540765`. The full task command line string gives us context for each long-running query that we need to find the needle in the hay stack without having to go to each individual Ascender node and query Linux by the pid to understand what work is being done by each pid.
```
awx_1-1540765-/bin/awx-manage gather_analytics --dry-run -v 3
<tower_instance_hostname>-<pid>-<pid_launch_string>
```

This feature is made possible by Postgres. We do this by using the `application_name` field. You can see this in `pg_stat_activity`. Below is an example where we are querying `pg_stat_activity` for sessions that have been alive for more than 5 minutes.

```
SELECT
  now() - pg_stat_activity.query_start AS duration,
  query,
  state,
  application_name
FROM pg_stat_activity
WHERE (now() - pg_stat_activity.query_start) > interval '5 minutes' and state='active';
```

```
    duration     |                                                     query                                                     | state  |                        application_name
-----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------------
 00:13:13.125703 | COPY (SELECT main_jobevent.id,                                                                               +| active | awx_1-1540765-/bin/awx-manage gather_analytics --dry-run -v 3
                 |                          main_jobevent.created,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.modified,                                                             +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.uuid,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.parent_uuid,                                                          +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.event,                                                                +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.event_data::json->'task_action' AS task_action,                       +|        |
                 |                          (CASE WHEN event = 'playbook_on_stats' THEN event_data END) as playbook_on_stats,   +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.failed,                                                               +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.changed,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.playbook,                                                             +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.play,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.task,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.role,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.job_id,                                                               +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.host_id,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.host_name,                                                            +|        |
                 |                          CAST(main_jobevent.event_data::json->>'start' AS TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE) AS start,+|        |
                 |                                                                                                               |        |
 00:13:13.125703 | COPY (SELECT main_jobevent.id,                                                                               +| active | awx_1-1540765-/bin/awx-manage gather_analytics --dry-run -v 3
                 |                          main_jobevent.created,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.modified,                                                             +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.uuid,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.parent_uuid,                                                          +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.event,                                                                +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.event_data::json->'task_action' AS task_action,                       +|        |
                 |                          (CASE WHEN event = 'playbook_on_stats' THEN event_data END) as playbook_on_stats,   +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.failed,                                                               +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.changed,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.playbook,                                                             +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.play,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.task,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.role,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.job_id,                                                               +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.host_id,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.host_name,                                                            +|        |
                 |                          CAST(main_jobevent.event_data::json->>'start' AS TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE) AS start,+|        |
                 |                                                                                                               |        |
                 
```

Remote Debugging
----------------
Python processes in Ascender's development environment are kept running in the
background via supervisord.  As such, interacting with them via Python's
standard `pdb.set_trace()` isn't possible.

Bundled in our container environment is a remote debugging tool, `sdb`.  You
can use it to set remote breakpoints in Ascender code and debug interactively over
a telnet session:

```python
    # awx/main/tasks.py

    class SomeTask(awx.main.tasks.jobs.BaseTask):

        def run(self, pk, **kwargs):
            # This will set a breakpoint and open an interactive Python
            # debugger exposed on a random port between 6899-6999.  The chosen
            # port will be reported as a warning in the Ascender logs, e.g.,
            #
            # [2017-01-30 22:26:04,366: WARNING/Worker-11] Remote Debugger:6900: Please telnet into 0.0.0.0 6900.
            #
            # You can access it from your host machine using telnet:
            #
            # $ telnet localhost <port>
            import sdb
            sdb.set_trace()
```

Keep in mind that when you interactively debug in this way, any process
that encounters a breakpoint will wait until an active client is established
(it won't handle additional tasks) and concludes the debugging session with
a `continue` command.

To simplify remote debugging session management, Ascender's development
environment comes with tooling that can automatically discover open
remote debugging sessions and automatically connect to them.  From your *host*
machine (*i.e.*, _outside_ of the development container), you can run:

```
sdb-listen
```

This will open a Python process that listens for new debugger sessions and
automatically connects to them for you.

Graph Jobs
----------
The `awx-manage graph_jobs` can be used to visualize how Jobs progress from
pending to waiting to running.

```
awx-manage graph_jobs --help
usage: awx-manage graph_jobs [-h] [--refresh REFRESH] [--width WIDTH]
                             [--height HEIGHT] [--version] [-v {0,1,2,3}]
                             [--settings SETTINGS] [--pythonpath PYTHONPATH]
                             [--traceback] [--no-color] [--force-color]

Plot pending, waiting, running jobs over time on the terminal

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --refresh REFRESH     Time between refreshes of the graph and data in
                        seconds (defaults to 1.0)
  --width WIDTH         Width of the graph (defaults to 100)
  --height HEIGHT       Height of the graph (defaults to 30)
```

Below is an example run with 200 Jobs flowing through the system.

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/xnfzMQ30xWPdhwORiISz0wcEw.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/xnfzMQ30xWPdhwORiISz0wcEw)
=======
Code Instrumentation Profiling
------------------------------
Decorate a function to generate profiling data that will tell you the percentage
of time spent in branches of a code path. This comes at an absolute performance
cost. However, the relative numbers are still very helpful.

Requirements for `dot_enabled=True`
**Note:** The profiling code will run as if `dot_enabled=False` when `gprof2dot`
package is not found
```
/var/lib/awx/venv/awx/bin/pip3 install gprof2dot
```

Below is the signature of the `@profile` decorator.
```
@profile(name, dest='/var/log/tower/profile', dot_enabled=True)
```

```
from awx.main.utils.profiling import profile

@profile(name="task_manager_profile")
def task_manager():
    ...
```

Now, invoke the function being profiled. Each run of the profiled function
will result in a file output to `dest` containing the profile data summary as
well as a dot graph if enabled. The profile data summary can be viewed in a
text editor. The dot graph can be viewed using `xdot`.

```
bash-4.4$ ls -aln /var/log/tower/profile/
total 24
drwxr-xr-x 2 awx  root 4096 Oct 15 13:23 .
drwxrwxr-x 1 root root 4096 Oct 15 13:23 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 awx  root  635 Oct 15 13:23 2.001s-task_manager_profile-2303-272858af-3bda-45ec-af9e-7067aa86e4f3.dot
-rw-r--r-- 1 awx  root  587 Oct 15 13:23 2.001s-task_manager_profile-2303-272858af-3bda-45ec-af9e-7067aa86e4f3.pstats
-rw-r--r-- 1 awx  root  632 Oct 15 13:23 2.002s-task_manager_profile-2303-4cdf4660-3ef4-4238-8164-33611822d9e3.dot
-rw-r--r-- 1 awx  root  587 Oct 15 13:23 2.002s-task_manager_profile-2303-4cdf4660-3ef4-4238-8164-33611822d9e3.pstats
```

```
xdot /var/log/tower/profile/2.001s-task_manager_profile-2303-272858af-3bda-45ec-af9e-7067aa86e4f3.dot
```


Code Instrumentation Timing
---------------------------
Similar to the profiling decorator, there is a timing decorator. This is useful
when you do not want to incur the overhead of profiling and want to know the
accurate absolute timing of a code path.

Below is the signature of the `@timing` decorator.
```
@timing(name, dest='/var/log/tower/timing')
```

```
from awx.main.utils.profiling import timing

@timing(name="my_task_manager_timing")
def task_manager():
    ...
```

Now, invoke the function being timed. Each run of the timed function will result
in a file output to `dest`. The timing data will be in the file name.

```
bash-4.4# ls -aln
total 16
drwxr-xr-x 2 0 0 4096 Oct 20 12:43 .
drwxrwxr-x 1 0 0 4096 Oct 20 12:43 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 0 0   61 Oct 20 12:43 2.002178-seconds-my_task_manager-ab720a2f-4624-47d0-b897-8549fe7e8c99.time
-rw-r--r-- 1 0 0   60 Oct 20 12:43 2.00228-seconds-my_task_manager-e8a901be-9cdb-4ffc-a34a-a6bcb4266e7c.time
```

The class behind the decorator can also be used for profiling.

```
from awx.main.utils.profiling import AWXProfiler

prof = AWXProfiler("hello_world")
prof.start()
'''
code to profile here
'''
prof.stop()


# Note that start() and stop() can be reused. An new profile file will be output.
prof.start()
'''
more code to profile
'''
prof.stop()
```

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/debugging/debugging_misc.md, after:

Debugging
=========

SQL Debugging
-------------
climber includes a powerful tool for tracking slow queries across all of its Python processes.
As the climber user, run:

```
$ awx-manage profile_sql --threshold 2 --minutes 5
```

...where threshold is the max query time in seconds, and minutes it the number of minutes to record.
For the next five minutes (in this example), any climber Python process that generates a SQL query
that runs for >2s will be recorded in a `.sqlite` database in `/var/log/tower/profile`.

This is a useful tool for logging all queries at a per-process level, or filtering and searching for
queries within a certain code branch.  For example, if you observed that certain HTTP requests were
particularly slow, you could enable profiling, perform the slow request, and then search the log:

```
$ sqlite3 -column -header /var/log/tower/profile/uwsgi.sqlite
sqlite> .schema queries
CREATE TABLE queries (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
    version TEXT,             # the climber version
    pid INTEGER,              # the pid of the process
    stamp DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    argv REAL,                # argv of the process
    time REAL,                # time to run the query (in seconds)
    sql TEXT,                 # the actual query
    explain TEXT,             # EXPLAIN VERBOSE ... of the query
    bt TEXT                   # python stack trace that led to the query running
);
sqlite> SELECT time, sql FROM queries ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 1;
time        sql
----------  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.046       UPDATE "django_session" SET "session_data" = 'XYZ', "expire_date" = '2019-02-15T21:56:45.693290+00:00'::timestamptz WHERE "django_session"."session_key" = 'we9dumywgju4fulaxz3oki58zpxgmd6t'
```

Postgres Tracing Slow Queries
-----------------------------
Ensure that slow query logging is turned on in the Postgres config and that the log line prefix contains the application name parameter. Below is an example.

```
log_min_duration_statement = 500 # in ms
log_line_prefix = '< %m %a >' # timestamp, application name
```

We've made it easier to correlate postgres connections <--> the processes that is doing the query. For example, the following line is a log entry from a slow running `awx-manage` command. 

```
< 2021-04-21 12:42:10.307 UTC awx_1-1540765-/bin/awx-manage gather_analytics --dry-run -v 3 >LOG:  duration: 1211.270 ms  statement: SELECT MIN("main_jobevent"."id") AS "pk__min", MAX("main_jobevent"."id") AS "pk__max" FROM "main_jobevent" WHERE ("main_jobevent"."modified" >= '2021-03-24T12:42:08.846790+00:00'::timestamptz AND "main_jobevent"."modified" <= '2021-04-21T12:42:08.846790+00:00'::timestamptz)
```

The above entry was found in the log file `/var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_log/postgresql-Wed.log`

Note the `application_name` portion. This allows us to trace the query to the node `awx_1` with processes id `1540765`. The full task command line string gives us context for each long-running query that we need to find the needle in the hay stack without having to go to each individual climber node and query Linux by the pid to understand what work is being done by each pid.
```
awx_1-1540765-/bin/awx-manage gather_analytics --dry-run -v 3
<tower_instance_hostname>-<pid>-<pid_launch_string>
```

This feature is made possible by Postgres. We do this by using the `application_name` field. You can see this in `pg_stat_activity`. Below is an example where we are querying `pg_stat_activity` for sessions that have been alive for more than 5 minutes.

```
SELECT
  now() - pg_stat_activity.query_start AS duration,
  query,
  state,
  application_name
FROM pg_stat_activity
WHERE (now() - pg_stat_activity.query_start) > interval '5 minutes' and state='active';
```

```
    duration     |                                                     query                                                     | state  |                        application_name
-----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------------
 00:13:13.125703 | COPY (SELECT main_jobevent.id,                                                                               +| active | awx_1-1540765-/bin/awx-manage gather_analytics --dry-run -v 3
                 |                          main_jobevent.created,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.modified,                                                             +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.uuid,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.parent_uuid,                                                          +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.event,                                                                +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.event_data::json->'task_action' AS task_action,                       +|        |
                 |                          (CASE WHEN event = 'playbook_on_stats' THEN event_data END) as playbook_on_stats,   +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.failed,                                                               +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.changed,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.playbook,                                                             +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.play,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.task,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.role,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.job_id,                                                               +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.host_id,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.host_name,                                                            +|        |
                 |                          CAST(main_jobevent.event_data::json->>'start' AS TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE) AS start,+|        |
                 |                                                                                                               |        |
 00:13:13.125703 | COPY (SELECT main_jobevent.id,                                                                               +| active | awx_1-1540765-/bin/awx-manage gather_analytics --dry-run -v 3
                 |                          main_jobevent.created,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.modified,                                                             +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.uuid,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.parent_uuid,                                                          +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.event,                                                                +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.event_data::json->'task_action' AS task_action,                       +|        |
                 |                          (CASE WHEN event = 'playbook_on_stats' THEN event_data END) as playbook_on_stats,   +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.failed,                                                               +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.changed,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.playbook,                                                             +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.play,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.task,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.role,                                                                 +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.job_id,                                                               +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.host_id,                                                              +|        |
                 |                          main_jobevent.host_name,                                                            +|        |
                 |                          CAST(main_jobevent.event_data::json->>'start' AS TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE) AS start,+|        |
                 |                                                                                                               |        |
                 
```

Remote Debugging
----------------
Python processes in climber's development environment are kept running in the
background via supervisord.  As such, interacting with them via Python's
standard `pdb.set_trace()` isn't possible.

Bundled in our container environment is a remote debugging tool, `sdb`.  You
can use it to set remote breakpoints in climber code and debug interactively over
a telnet session:

```python
    # awx/main/tasks.py

    class SomeTask(awx.main.tasks.jobs.BaseTask):

        def run(self, pk, **kwargs):
            # This will set a breakpoint and open an interactive Python
            # debugger exposed on a random port between 6899-6999.  The chosen
            # port will be reported as a warning in the climber logs, e.g.,
            #
            # [2017-01-30 22:26:04,366: WARNING/Worker-11] Remote Debugger:6900: Please telnet into 0.0.0.0 6900.
            #
            # You can access it from your host machine using telnet:
            #
            # $ telnet localhost <port>
            import sdb
            sdb.set_trace()
```

Keep in mind that when you interactively debug in this way, any process
that encounters a breakpoint will wait until an active client is established
(it won't handle additional tasks) and concludes the debugging session with
a `continue` command.

To simplify remote debugging session management, climber's development
environment comes with tooling that can automatically discover open
remote debugging sessions and automatically connect to them.  From your *host*
machine (*i.e.*, _outside_ of the development container), you can run:

```
sdb-listen
```

This will open a Python process that listens for new debugger sessions and
automatically connects to them for you.

Graph Jobs
----------
The `awx-manage graph_jobs` can be used to visualize how Jobs progress from
pending to waiting to running.

```
awx-manage graph_jobs --help
usage: awx-manage graph_jobs [-h] [--refresh REFRESH] [--width WIDTH]
                             [--height HEIGHT] [--version] [-v {0,1,2,3}]
                             [--settings SETTINGS] [--pythonpath PYTHONPATH]
                             [--traceback] [--no-color] [--force-color]

Plot pending, waiting, running jobs over time on the terminal

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --refresh REFRESH     Time between refreshes of the graph and data in
                        seconds (defaults to 1.0)
  --width WIDTH         Width of the graph (defaults to 100)
  --height HEIGHT       Height of the graph (defaults to 30)
```

Below is an example run with 200 Jobs flowing through the system.

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/xnfzMQ30xWPdhwORiISz0wcEw.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/xnfzMQ30xWPdhwORiISz0wcEw)
=======
Code Instrumentation Profiling
------------------------------
Decorate a function to generate profiling data that will tell you the percentage
of time spent in branches of a code path. This comes at an absolute performance
cost. However, the relative numbers are still very helpful.

Requirements for `dot_enabled=True`
**Note:** The profiling code will run as if `dot_enabled=False` when `gprof2dot`
package is not found
```
/var/lib/awx/venv/awx/bin/pip3 install gprof2dot
```

Below is the signature of the `@profile` decorator.
```
@profile(name, dest='/var/log/tower/profile', dot_enabled=True)
```

```
from awx.main.utils.profiling import profile

@profile(name="task_manager_profile")
def task_manager():
    ...
```

Now, invoke the function being profiled. Each run of the profiled function
will result in a file output to `dest` containing the profile data summary as
well as a dot graph if enabled. The profile data summary can be viewed in a
text editor. The dot graph can be viewed using `xdot`.

```
bash-4.4$ ls -aln /var/log/tower/profile/
total 24
drwxr-xr-x 2 awx  root 4096 Oct 15 13:23 .
drwxrwxr-x 1 root root 4096 Oct 15 13:23 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 awx  root  635 Oct 15 13:23 2.001s-task_manager_profile-2303-272858af-3bda-45ec-af9e-7067aa86e4f3.dot
-rw-r--r-- 1 awx  root  587 Oct 15 13:23 2.001s-task_manager_profile-2303-272858af-3bda-45ec-af9e-7067aa86e4f3.pstats
-rw-r--r-- 1 awx  root  632 Oct 15 13:23 2.002s-task_manager_profile-2303-4cdf4660-3ef4-4238-8164-33611822d9e3.dot
-rw-r--r-- 1 awx  root  587 Oct 15 13:23 2.002s-task_manager_profile-2303-4cdf4660-3ef4-4238-8164-33611822d9e3.pstats
```

```
xdot /var/log/tower/profile/2.001s-task_manager_profile-2303-272858af-3bda-45ec-af9e-7067aa86e4f3.dot
```


Code Instrumentation Timing
---------------------------
Similar to the profiling decorator, there is a timing decorator. This is useful
when you do not want to incur the overhead of profiling and want to know the
accurate absolute timing of a code path.

Below is the signature of the `@timing` decorator.
```
@timing(name, dest='/var/log/tower/timing')
```

```
from awx.main.utils.profiling import timing

@timing(name="my_task_manager_timing")
def task_manager():
    ...
```

Now, invoke the function being timed. Each run of the timed function will result
in a file output to `dest`. The timing data will be in the file name.

```
bash-4.4# ls -aln
total 16
drwxr-xr-x 2 0 0 4096 Oct 20 12:43 .
drwxrwxr-x 1 0 0 4096 Oct 20 12:43 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 0 0   61 Oct 20 12:43 2.002178-seconds-my_task_manager-ab720a2f-4624-47d0-b897-8549fe7e8c99.time
-rw-r--r-- 1 0 0   60 Oct 20 12:43 2.00228-seconds-my_task_manager-e8a901be-9cdb-4ffc-a34a-a6bcb4266e7c.time
```

The class behind the decorator can also be used for profiling.

```
from awx.main.utils.profiling import AWXProfiler

prof = AWXProfiler("hello_world")
prof.start()
'''
code to profile here
'''
prof.stop()


# Note that start() and stop() can be reused. An new profile file will be output.
prof.start()
'''
more code to profile
'''
prof.stop()
```
