docs/docsite/rst/quickstart/index.rst, before:

.. _qs_start:

==============
Ascender Quickstart
==============

Complete the basic steps for using Ascender and running your first playbook.

This guide applies to the latest version of Ascender only.
The content in this guide is updated frequently and might contain functionality that is not available in previous versions.
Likewise content in this guide can be removed or replaced if it applies to functionality that is no longer available in the latest version.

**Join us online**

We talk about Ascender documentation on Matrix at `#docs:ansible.im <https://matrix.to/#/#docs:ansible.im>`_ and on libera IRC at ``#ansible-docs`` if you ever want to join us and chat about the docs!

You can also find lots of Ascender discussion and get answers to questions at `forum.ansible.com <https://forum.ansible.com/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:

   self
   quick_start
   login_superuser
   examine_dashboard
   setup
   create_organization
   create_user
   create_inventory
   create_credential
   create_project
   create_job
   launch

.. excluded 'configure authentication' from toctree intentionally per doc issue #172.

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/docsite/rst/quickstart/index.rst, after:

.. _qs_start:

==============
climber Quickstart
==============

Complete the basic steps for using climber and running your first playbook.

This guide applies to the latest version of climber only.
The content in this guide is updated frequently and might contain functionality that is not available in previous versions.
Likewise content in this guide can be removed or replaced if it applies to functionality that is no longer available in the latest version.

**Join us online**

We talk about climber documentation on Matrix at `#docs:ansible.im <https://matrix.to/#/#docs:ansible.im>`_ and on libera IRC at ``#ansible-docs`` if you ever want to join us and chat about the docs!

You can also find lots of climber discussion and get answers to questions at `forum.ansible.com <https://forum.ansible.com/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:

   self
   quick_start
   login_superuser
   examine_dashboard
   setup
   create_organization
   create_user
   create_inventory
   create_credential
   create_project
   create_job
   launch

.. excluded 'configure authentication' from toctree intentionally per doc issue #172.
