docs/docsite/rst/quickstart/launch.rst, before:

Launch it!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. index::
   pair: job templates; launch



From the Templates list view, click the Launch (|launch|) button to run the Demo Job Template.

.. |launch| image:: ../common/images/launch-button.png

|Job templates - home launch|

.. |Job templates - home launch| image:: ../common/images/qs-job-templates-list-view-click-launch.png


The initial job launch returns a status page which updates automatically using Ascender's Live Event feature until the job is complete. Once complete, the job results look like the following:

|Job templates - demo run complete|

.. |Job templates - demo run complete| image:: ../common/images/qs-job-templates-demo-complete.png

For more details on the job results, refer to :ref:`ug_jobs`.

Congratulations! Your Ascender installation is officially setup and running properly. To learn more about these Ascender features or to learn about administration tasks, the Ascender API, etc., refer to the following documentation sets:

- :ref:`Ascender User Guide <ug_start>`
- :ref:`Ascender Administration Guide <ag_start>`
- :ref:`Ascender API Guide<api_start>`
- :ref:`Ascender Release Notes <releasenotes_start>`
- `Ansible Documentation`_

.. _Ansible Documentation: http://docs.ansible.com/

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/docsite/rst/quickstart/launch.rst, after:

Launch it!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. index::
   pair: job templates; launch



From the Templates list view, click the Launch (|launch|) button to run the Demo Job Template.

.. |launch| image:: ../common/images/launch-button.png

|Job templates - home launch|

.. |Job templates - home launch| image:: ../common/images/qs-job-templates-list-view-click-launch.png


The initial job launch returns a status page which updates automatically using climber's Live Event feature until the job is complete. Once complete, the job results look like the following:

|Job templates - demo run complete|

.. |Job templates - demo run complete| image:: ../common/images/qs-job-templates-demo-complete.png

For more details on the job results, refer to :ref:`ug_jobs`.

Congratulations! Your climber installation is officially setup and running properly. To learn more about these climber features or to learn about administration tasks, the climber API, etc., refer to the following documentation sets:

- :ref:`climber User Guide <ug_start>`
- :ref:`climber Administration Guide <ag_start>`
- :ref:`climber API Guide<api_start>`
- :ref:`climber Release Notes <releasenotes_start>`
- `Ansible Documentation`_

.. _Ansible Documentation: http://docs.ansible.com/
