docs/docsite/rst/rest_api/index.rst, before:

.. _api_start:

=================
Ascender API Reference
=================

Developer reference for the Ascender API.

This guide applies to the latest version of Ascender only.
The content in this guide is updated frequently and might contain functionality that is not available in previous versions.
Likewise content in this guide can be removed or replaced if it applies to functionality that is no longer available in the latest version.

**Join us online**

We talk about Ascender documentation on Matrix at `#docs:ansible.im <https://matrix.to/#/#docs:ansible.im>`_ and on libera IRC at ``#ansible-docs`` if you ever want to join us and chat about the docs!

You can also find lots of Ascender discussion and get answers to questions at `forum.ansible.com <https://forum.ansible.com/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:

   self
   tools
   browseable
   conventions
   sorting
   searching
   filtering
   pagination
   access_resources
   read_only_fields
   authentication
   api_ref

..  intro
.. auth_token
..   ping
..   configuration
..   me
..   dashboard
..   organizations
..   users
..   projects
..   teams
..   credentials
..   inventory_list
..   inventory_script
..   inventory_source
..   group_list
..   host_list
..   job_template
..   job_list
..   ad_hoc_command
..  system_job_template
..   system_job_list
..   schedules
..  unified_job_template
..   unified_job_list
..   activity_stream

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/docsite/rst/rest_api/index.rst, after:

.. _api_start:

=================
climber API Reference
=================

Developer reference for the climber API.

This guide applies to the latest version of climber only.
The content in this guide is updated frequently and might contain functionality that is not available in previous versions.
Likewise content in this guide can be removed or replaced if it applies to functionality that is no longer available in the latest version.

**Join us online**

We talk about climber documentation on Matrix at `#docs:ansible.im <https://matrix.to/#/#docs:ansible.im>`_ and on libera IRC at ``#ansible-docs`` if you ever want to join us and chat about the docs!

You can also find lots of climber discussion and get answers to questions at `forum.ansible.com <https://forum.ansible.com/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:

   self
   tools
   browseable
   conventions
   sorting
   searching
   filtering
   pagination
   access_resources
   read_only_fields
   authentication
   api_ref

..  intro
.. auth_token
..   ping
..   configuration
..   me
..   dashboard
..   organizations
..   users
..   projects
..   teams
..   credentials
..   inventory_list
..   inventory_script
..   inventory_source
..   group_list
..   host_list
..   job_template
..   job_list
..   ad_hoc_command
..  system_job_template
..   system_job_list
..   schedules
..  unified_job_template
..   unified_job_list
..   activity_stream
