docs/docsite/rst/administration/configure_ascender.rst, before:

.. _ag_configure_ascender:

Ascender Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. index::
   single: configure Ascender

.. _configure_ascender_overview:

You can configure various Ascender settings within the Settings screen in the following tabs:

.. image:: ../common/images/ug-settings-menu-screen.png
   :alt: Screenshot of the Ascender settings menu screen.

Each tab contains fields with a **Reset** button, allowing you to revert any value entered back to the default value. **Reset All** allows you to revert all the values to their factory default values.

**Save** applies changes you make, but it does not exit the edit dialog. To return to the Settings screen, click **Settings** from the left navigation bar or use the breadcrumbs at the top of the current view.


Authentication
=================
.. index::
    single: social authentication
    single: authentication
    single: enterprise authentication
    pair: configuration; authentication

.. include:: ./configure_ascender_authentication.rst


.. _configure_ascender_jobs:

Jobs
=========
.. index::
   single: jobs
   pair: configuration; jobs

The Jobs tab allows you to configure the types of modules that are allowed to be used by Ascender's Ad Hoc Commands feature, set limits on the number of jobs that can be scheduled, define their output size, and other details pertaining to working with Jobs in Ascender.

1. From the left navigation bar, click **Settings** from the left navigation bar and select **Jobs settings** from the Settings screen.

2. Set the configurable options from the fields provided. Click the tooltip |help| icon next to the field that you need additional information or details about. Refer to the :ref:`ug_galaxy` section for details about configuring Galaxy settings.

.. note::

    The values for all the timeouts are in seconds.

.. image:: ../common/images/configure-awx-jobs.png
   :alt: Screenshot of the Ascender job configuration settings.

3. Click **Save** to apply the settings or **Cancel** to abandon the changes.


.. _configure_ascender_system:

System
======
.. index::
   pair: configuration; system

The System tab allows you to define the base URL for the Ascender host, configure alerts, enable activity capturing, control visibility of users, enable certain Ascender features and functionality through a license file, and configure logging aggregation options.

1. From the left navigation bar, click **Settings**.

2. The right side of the Settings window is a set of configurable System settings. Select from the following options:

  - **Miscellaneous System settings**: enable activity streams, specify the default execution environment, define the base URL for the Ascender host, enable Ascender administration alerts, set user visibility, define analytics, specify usernames and passwords, and configure proxies.
  - **Miscellaneous Authentication settings**: configure options associated with authentication methods (built-in or SSO), sessions (timeout, number of sessions logged in, tokens), and social authentication mapping.
  - **Logging settings**: configure logging options based on the type you choose:

    .. image:: ../common/images/configure-awx-system-logging-types.png
      :alt: Logging settings shown with the list of options for Logging Aggregator Types.

    For more information about each of the logging aggregation types, refer to the :ref:`ag_logging` section of the |ata|.


3. Set the configurable options from the fields provided. Click the tooltip |help| icon next to the field that you need additional information or details about. Below is an example of the System settings window.

.. |help| image:: ../common/images/tooltips-icon.png

.. image:: ../common/images/configure-awx-system.png
   :alt: Miscellaneous System settings window showing all possible configurable options.

.. note::

  The **Allow External Users to Create Oauth2 Tokens** setting is disabled by default. This ensures external users cannot *create* their own tokens. If you enable then disable it, any tokens created by external users in the meantime will still exist, and are not automatically revoked.

4. Click **Save** to apply the settings or **Cancel** to abandon the changes.

.. _configure_ascender_ui:

User Interface
================
.. index::
   pair: configuration; UI
   pair: configuration; data collection
   pair: configuration; custom logo
   pair: configuration; custom login message
   pair: logo; custom
   pair: login message; custom

.. include:: ../common/logos_branding.rst

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/docsite/rst/administration/configure_ascender.rst, after:

.. _ag_configure_climber:

climber Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. index::
   single: configure climber

.. _configure_climber_overview:

You can configure various climber settings within the Settings screen in the following tabs:

.. image:: ../common/images/ug-settings-menu-screen.png
   :alt: Screenshot of the climber settings menu screen.

Each tab contains fields with a **Reset** button, allowing you to revert any value entered back to the default value. **Reset All** allows you to revert all the values to their factory default values.

**Save** applies changes you make, but it does not exit the edit dialog. To return to the Settings screen, click **Settings** from the left navigation bar or use the breadcrumbs at the top of the current view.


Authentication
=================
.. index::
    single: social authentication
    single: authentication
    single: enterprise authentication
    pair: configuration; authentication

.. include:: ./configure_climber_authentication.rst


.. _configure_climber_jobs:

Jobs
=========
.. index::
   single: jobs
   pair: configuration; jobs

The Jobs tab allows you to configure the types of modules that are allowed to be used by climber's Ad Hoc Commands feature, set limits on the number of jobs that can be scheduled, define their output size, and other details pertaining to working with Jobs in climber.

1. From the left navigation bar, click **Settings** from the left navigation bar and select **Jobs settings** from the Settings screen.

2. Set the configurable options from the fields provided. Click the tooltip |help| icon next to the field that you need additional information or details about. Refer to the :ref:`ug_galaxy` section for details about configuring Galaxy settings.

.. note::

    The values for all the timeouts are in seconds.

.. image:: ../common/images/configure-awx-jobs.png
   :alt: Screenshot of the climber job configuration settings.

3. Click **Save** to apply the settings or **Cancel** to abandon the changes.


.. _configure_climber_system:

System
======
.. index::
   pair: configuration; system

The System tab allows you to define the base URL for the climber host, configure alerts, enable activity capturing, control visibility of users, enable certain climber features and functionality through a license file, and configure logging aggregation options.

1. From the left navigation bar, click **Settings**.

2. The right side of the Settings window is a set of configurable System settings. Select from the following options:

  - **Miscellaneous System settings**: enable activity streams, specify the default execution environment, define the base URL for the climber host, enable climber administration alerts, set user visibility, define analytics, specify usernames and passwords, and configure proxies.
  - **Miscellaneous Authentication settings**: configure options associated with authentication methods (built-in or SSO), sessions (timeout, number of sessions logged in, tokens), and social authentication mapping.
  - **Logging settings**: configure logging options based on the type you choose:

    .. image:: ../common/images/configure-awx-system-logging-types.png
      :alt: Logging settings shown with the list of options for Logging Aggregator Types.

    For more information about each of the logging aggregation types, refer to the :ref:`ag_logging` section of the |ata|.


3. Set the configurable options from the fields provided. Click the tooltip |help| icon next to the field that you need additional information or details about. Below is an example of the System settings window.

.. |help| image:: ../common/images/tooltips-icon.png

.. image:: ../common/images/configure-awx-system.png
   :alt: Miscellaneous System settings window showing all possible configurable options.

.. note::

  The **Allow External Users to Create Oauth2 Tokens** setting is disabled by default. This ensures external users cannot *create* their own tokens. If you enable then disable it, any tokens created by external users in the meantime will still exist, and are not automatically revoked.

4. Click **Save** to apply the settings or **Cancel** to abandon the changes.

.. _configure_climber_ui:

User Interface
================
.. index::
   pair: configuration; UI
   pair: configuration; data collection
   pair: configuration; custom logo
   pair: configuration; custom login message
   pair: logo; custom
   pair: login message; custom

.. include:: ../common/logos_branding.rst
