docs/docsite/rst/administration/index.rst, before:

.. _ag_start:

=============================
Administering Ascender Deployments
=============================

Learn how to administer Ascender deployments through custom scripts, management jobs, and DevOps workflows.
This guide assumes at least basic understanding of the systems that you manage and maintain with Ascender.

This guide applies to the latest version of Ascender only.
The content in this guide is updated frequently and might contain functionality that is not available in previous versions.
Likewise content in this guide can be removed or replaced if it applies to functionality that is no longer available in the latest version.

**Join us online**

We talk about Ascender documentation on Matrix at `#docs:ansible.im <https://matrix.to/#/#docs:ansible.im>`_ and on libera IRC at ``#ansible-docs`` if you ever want to join us and chat about the docs!

You can also find lots of Ascender discussion and get answers to questions at `forum.ansible.com <https://forum.ansible.com/>`_.


.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :numbered:

  self
  init_script
  custom_inventory_script
  scm-inv-source
  multi-creds-assignment
  management_jobs
  clustering
  containers_instance_groups
  instances
  topology_viewer
  logfiles
  logging
  metrics
  performance
  secret_handling
  security_best_practices
  awx-manage
  configure_ascender
  isolation_variables
  oauth2_token_auth
  social_auth
  ent_auth
  ldap_auth
  authentication_timeout
  kerberos_auth
  session_limits
  custom_rebranding
  troubleshooting
  tipsandtricks
..  monitoring

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/docsite/rst/administration/index.rst, after:

.. _ag_start:

=============================
Administering climber Deployments
=============================

Learn how to administer climber deployments through custom scripts, management jobs, and DevOps workflows.
This guide assumes at least basic understanding of the systems that you manage and maintain with climber.

This guide applies to the latest version of climber only.
The content in this guide is updated frequently and might contain functionality that is not available in previous versions.
Likewise content in this guide can be removed or replaced if it applies to functionality that is no longer available in the latest version.

**Join us online**

We talk about climber documentation on Matrix at `#docs:ansible.im <https://matrix.to/#/#docs:ansible.im>`_ and on libera IRC at ``#ansible-docs`` if you ever want to join us and chat about the docs!

You can also find lots of climber discussion and get answers to questions at `forum.ansible.com <https://forum.ansible.com/>`_.


.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :numbered:

  self
  init_script
  custom_inventory_script
  scm-inv-source
  multi-creds-assignment
  management_jobs
  clustering
  containers_instance_groups
  instances
  topology_viewer
  logfiles
  logging
  metrics
  performance
  secret_handling
  security_best_practices
  awx-manage
  configure_climber
  isolation_variables
  oauth2_token_auth
  social_auth
  ent_auth
  ldap_auth
  authentication_timeout
  kerberos_auth
  session_limits
  custom_rebranding
  troubleshooting
  tipsandtricks
..  monitoring
