docs/docsite/rst/administration/init_script.rst, before:

.. _ag_restart_awx:

Starting, Stopping, and Restarting Ascender
----------------------------------------

To install Ascender: https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator/tree/devel/docs/installation

.. these instructions will be ported over to here in the near future (TBD)

To migrate from an old Ascender to a new Ascender instance: https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator/blob/devel/docs/migration/migration.md

.. these instructions will be ported over to here in the near future (TBD)

To upgrade you Ascender instance: https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator/blob/devel/docs/upgrade/upgrading.md

.. these instructions will be ported over to here in the near future (TBD)


To restart an Ascender instance, you must first kill the container and restart it. Access the web-task container in the Operator to invoke the supervisord restart. 

.. these instructions will need to be fleshed out (TBD)


To uninstall you Ascender instance: https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator/blob/devel/docs/uninstall/uninstall.md

.. these instructions will be ported over to here in the near future (TBD)

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/docsite/rst/administration/init_script.rst, after:

.. _ag_restart_awx:

Starting, Stopping, and Restarting climber
----------------------------------------

To install climber: https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator/tree/devel/docs/installation

.. these instructions will be ported over to here in the near future (TBD)

To migrate from an old climber to a new climber instance: https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator/blob/devel/docs/migration/migration.md

.. these instructions will be ported over to here in the near future (TBD)

To upgrade you climber instance: https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator/blob/devel/docs/upgrade/upgrading.md

.. these instructions will be ported over to here in the near future (TBD)


To restart an climber instance, you must first kill the container and restart it. Access the web-task container in the Operator to invoke the supervisord restart. 

.. these instructions will need to be fleshed out (TBD)


To uninstall you climber instance: https://github.com/ansible/awx-operator/blob/devel/docs/uninstall/uninstall.md

.. these instructions will be ported over to here in the near future (TBD)
