docs/docsite/rst/administration/metrics.rst, before:

.. _ag_metrics:

Metrics
============

.. index::
   pair: metrics; prometheus

A metrics endpoint is available in the API: ``/api/v2/metrics/`` that surfaces instantaneous metrics about Ascender, which can be consumed by system monitoring software like the open source project Prometheus.

The type of data shown at the ``metrics/`` endpoint is ``Content-type: text/plain`` and ``application/json`` as well. This endpoint contains useful information, such as counts of how many active user sessions there are, or how many jobs are actively running on each Ascender node. Prometheus can be configured to scrape these metrics from Ascender by hitting Ascender metrics endpoint and storing this data in a time-series database. Clients can later use Prometheus in conjunction with other software like Grafana or Metricsbeat to visualize that data and set up alerts.

Set up Prometheus
-------------------

To set up and use Prometheus, you will need to install Prometheus on a virtual machine or container. Refer to the `Prometheus documentation`_ for further detail. 

.. _`Prometheus documentation`: https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps/

1. In the Prometheus config file (typically ``prometheus.yml``), specify a ``<token_value>``, a valid user/password for an Ascender user you have created, and a ``<awx_host>``. 

    .. note:: Alternatively, you can provide an OAuth2 token (which can be generated at ``/api/v2/users/N/personal_tokens/``). By default, the config assumes a user with username=admin and password=password.

 Using an OAuth2 Token, created at the ``/api/v2/tokens`` endpoint to authenticate prometheus with Ascender, the following example provides a valid scrape config if the URL for your Ascender's metrics endpoint was ``https://awx_host:443/metrics``.

 ::

    scrape_configs

      - job_name: 'awx'
        tls_config:
            insecure_skip_verify: True
        metrics_path: /api/v2/metrics
        scrape_interval: 5s
        scheme: https
        bearer_token: <token_value>
        # basic_auth:
        #   username: admin
        #   password: password
        static_configs:
            - targets: 
                - <awx_host>

 For help configuring other aspects of Prometheus, such as alerts and service discovery configurations, refer to the `Prometheus configuration docs`_.

    .. _`Prometheus configuration docs`: https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/

 If Prometheus is already running, you must restart it in order to apply the configuration changes by making a **POST** to the reload endpoint, or by killing the Prometheus process or service.

2. Use a browser to navigate to your graph in the Prometheus UI at ``http://your_prometheus:9090/graph`` and test out some queries. For example, you can query the current number of active Ascender user sessions by executing: ``awx_sessions_total{type="user"}``.

.. image:: ../common/images/metrics-prometheus-ui-query-example.png

Refer to the metrics endpoint in Ascender API for your instance (``api/v2/metrics``) for more ways to query.

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/docsite/rst/administration/metrics.rst, after:

.. _ag_metrics:

Metrics
============

.. index::
   pair: metrics; prometheus

A metrics endpoint is available in the API: ``/api/v2/metrics/`` that surfaces instantaneous metrics about climber, which can be consumed by system monitoring software like the open source project Prometheus.

The type of data shown at the ``metrics/`` endpoint is ``Content-type: text/plain`` and ``application/json`` as well. This endpoint contains useful information, such as counts of how many active user sessions there are, or how many jobs are actively running on each climber node. Prometheus can be configured to scrape these metrics from climber by hitting climber metrics endpoint and storing this data in a time-series database. Clients can later use Prometheus in conjunction with other software like Grafana or Metricsbeat to visualize that data and set up alerts.

Set up Prometheus
-------------------

To set up and use Prometheus, you will need to install Prometheus on a virtual machine or container. Refer to the `Prometheus documentation`_ for further detail. 

.. _`Prometheus documentation`: https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps/

1. In the Prometheus config file (typically ``prometheus.yml``), specify a ``<token_value>``, a valid user/password for an climber user you have created, and a ``<awx_host>``. 

    .. note:: Alternatively, you can provide an OAuth2 token (which can be generated at ``/api/v2/users/N/personal_tokens/``). By default, the config assumes a user with username=admin and password=password.

 Using an OAuth2 Token, created at the ``/api/v2/tokens`` endpoint to authenticate prometheus with climber, the following example provides a valid scrape config if the URL for your climber's metrics endpoint was ``https://awx_host:443/metrics``.

 ::

    scrape_configs

      - job_name: 'awx'
        tls_config:
            insecure_skip_verify: True
        metrics_path: /api/v2/metrics
        scrape_interval: 5s
        scheme: https
        bearer_token: <token_value>
        # basic_auth:
        #   username: admin
        #   password: password
        static_configs:
            - targets: 
                - <awx_host>

 For help configuring other aspects of Prometheus, such as alerts and service discovery configurations, refer to the `Prometheus configuration docs`_.

    .. _`Prometheus configuration docs`: https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/

 If Prometheus is already running, you must restart it in order to apply the configuration changes by making a **POST** to the reload endpoint, or by killing the Prometheus process or service.

2. Use a browser to navigate to your graph in the Prometheus UI at ``http://your_prometheus:9090/graph`` and test out some queries. For example, you can query the current number of active climber user sessions by executing: ``awx_sessions_total{type="user"}``.

.. image:: ../common/images/metrics-prometheus-ui-query-example.png

Refer to the metrics endpoint in climber API for your instance (``api/v2/metrics``) for more ways to query.
