docs/fact_cache.md, before:

# Ascender as an Ansible Fact Cache

Ascender can store and retrieve per-host facts via an Ansible Fact Cache Plugin.
This behavior is configurable on a per-job-template basis. When enabled, Ascender
will serve fact requests for all Hosts in an Inventory related to the Job
running. This allows users to use Job Templates with `--limit` while still
having access to the entire Inventory of Host facts.

## Ascender Fact Cache Implementation Details
### Ascender Injection
In order to understand the behavior of Ascender as a fact cache, you will need to
understand how fact caching is achieved in Ascender. When a Job launches with
`use_fact_cache=True`, Ascender will write all `ansible_facts` associated with
each Host in the associated Inventory as JSON files on the local file system
(one JSON file per host).  Jobs invoked with `use_fact_cache=False` will not
write `ansible_facts` files.

### Ansible Plugin Usage
When `use_fact_cache=True`, Ansible will be configured to use the `jsonfile`
cache plugin.  Any `get()` call to the fact cache interface in Ansible will
result in a JSON file lookup for the host-specific set of facts. Any `set()`
call to the fact cache will result in a JSON file being written to the local
file system.

### Ascender Cache to DB
When a Job with `use_fact_cache=True` finishes running, Ascender will look at all
of the local JSON files that represent the fact data.  Any records with file
modification times that have increased (because Ansible updated the file via
`cache.set()`) will result in the latest value being saved to the database.  On
subsequent playbook runs, Ascender will _only_ inject cached facts that are _newer_
than `settings.ANSIBLE_FACT_CACHE_TIMEOUT` seconds.

## Ascender Fact Logging
New and changed facts will be logged via Ascender's logging facility, specifically
to the `system_tracking` namespace or logger. The logging payload will include
the fields `host_name`, `inventory_id`, and `ansible_facts`. Where
`ansible_facts` is a dictionary of all Ansible facts for `host_name` in Ascender
Inventory `inventory_id`.

## Integration Testing
* Ensure `clear_facts` sets `hosts/<id>/ansible_facts` to `{}`.
* Ensure that `gather_facts: False` does NOT result in clearing existing facts.
* Ensure that when a host fact timeout is reached, that the facts are not used from the cache.

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/fact_cache.md, after:

# climber as an Ansible Fact Cache

climber can store and retrieve per-host facts via an Ansible Fact Cache Plugin.
This behavior is configurable on a per-job-template basis. When enabled, climber
will serve fact requests for all Hosts in an Inventory related to the Job
running. This allows users to use Job Templates with `--limit` while still
having access to the entire Inventory of Host facts.

## climber Fact Cache Implementation Details
### climber Injection
In order to understand the behavior of climber as a fact cache, you will need to
understand how fact caching is achieved in climber. When a Job launches with
`use_fact_cache=True`, climber will write all `ansible_facts` associated with
each Host in the associated Inventory as JSON files on the local file system
(one JSON file per host).  Jobs invoked with `use_fact_cache=False` will not
write `ansible_facts` files.

### Ansible Plugin Usage
When `use_fact_cache=True`, Ansible will be configured to use the `jsonfile`
cache plugin.  Any `get()` call to the fact cache interface in Ansible will
result in a JSON file lookup for the host-specific set of facts. Any `set()`
call to the fact cache will result in a JSON file being written to the local
file system.

### climber Cache to DB
When a Job with `use_fact_cache=True` finishes running, climber will look at all
of the local JSON files that represent the fact data.  Any records with file
modification times that have increased (because Ansible updated the file via
`cache.set()`) will result in the latest value being saved to the database.  On
subsequent playbook runs, climber will _only_ inject cached facts that are _newer_
than `settings.ANSIBLE_FACT_CACHE_TIMEOUT` seconds.

## climber Fact Logging
New and changed facts will be logged via climber's logging facility, specifically
to the `system_tracking` namespace or logger. The logging payload will include
the fields `host_name`, `inventory_id`, and `ansible_facts`. Where
`ansible_facts` is a dictionary of all Ansible facts for `host_name` in climber
Inventory `inventory_id`.

## Integration Testing
* Ensure `clear_facts` sets `hosts/<id>/ansible_facts` to `{}`.
* Ensure that `gather_facts: False` does NOT result in clearing existing facts.
* Ensure that when a host fact timeout is reached, that the facts are not used from the cache.
