docs/credentials/credential_plugins.md, before:

Credential Plugins
==================

By default, sensitive credential values (such as SSH passwords, SSH private
keys, API tokens for cloud services, etc.) in Ascender are stored in the Ascender database
after being encrypted with a symmetric encryption cipher utilizing AES-256 in
CBC mode alongside a SHA-256 HMAC.

Alternatively, Ascender supports retrieving secret values from third-party secret
management systems, such as HashiCorp Vault and Microsoft Azure Key Vault.
These external secret values will be fetched on demand every time they are
needed (generally speaking, immediately before running a playbook that needs
them).

Configuring Secret Lookups
--------------------------

When configuring Ascender to pull a secret from a third party system, there are
generally three steps.

Here is an example of creating an (1) Ascender Machine Credential with
a static username, `example-user` and (2) an externally-sourced secret from
HashiCorp Vault Key/Value system which will populate the (3) password field on
the Machine Credential:

1.  Create the Machine Credential with a static username, `example-user`.

2.  Create a second credential used to _authenticate_ with the external
    secret management system (in this example, specifying a URL and an
    OAuth2.0 token _to access_ HashiCorp Vault)

3.  _Link_ the `password` field for the Machine Credential to the external
    system by specifying the source (in this example, the HashiCorp Credential)
    and metadata about the path (e.g., `/some/path/to/my/password/`).

Note that you can perform these lookups on *any* field for any non-external
credential, including those with custom credential types. You could just as
easily create an AWS Credential and use lookups to retrieve the Access Key and
Secret Key from an external secret management system. External credentials
cannot have lookups applied to their fields.

Writing Custom Credential Plugins
---------------------------------

Credential Plugins in Ascender are just importable Python functions that are
registered using setuptools entrypoints
(https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#dynamic-discovery-of-services-and-plugins)

Example plugins officially supported in Ascender can be found in the source code at
`awx.main.credential_plugins`.

For instructions on writing and installing your own custom credential plugin, see: https://github.com/ansible/awx-custom-credential-plugin-example

Programmatic Secret Fetching
----------------------------
If you want to programmatically fetch secrets from a supported external secret
management system (for example, if you wanted to compose an Ascender database connection
string in `/etc/tower/conf.d/postgres.py` using an external system rather than
storing the password in plaintext on your disk), doing so is fairly easy:

```python
from awx.main.credential_plugins import hashivault
hashivault.hashivault_kv_plugin.backend(
    url='https://hcv.example.org',
    token='some-valid-token',
    api_version='v2',
    secret_path='/path/to/secret',
    secret_key='dbpass'
)
```

Supported Plugins
=================

HashiCorp Vault KV
------------------

Ascender supports retrieving secret values from HashiCorp Vault KV
(https://www.vaultproject.io/api/secret/kv/)

The following example illustrates how to configure a Machine Credential to pull
its password from a HashiCorp Vault:

1.  Look up the ID of the Machine and HashiCorp Vault Secret Lookup Credential
    types (in this example, `1` and `15`):

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credential_types/?name=Machine" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
    "results": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "url": "/api/v2/credential_types/1/",
            "name": "Machine",
            ...
```

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credential_types/?name__startswith=HashiCorp" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
    "results": [
        {
            "id": 15,
            "url": "/api/v2/credential_types/15/",
            "name": "HashiCorp Vault Secret Lookup",
            ...
```

2.  Create a Machine and a HashiCorp Vault Credential:

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"user": N, "credential_type": 1, "name": "My SSH", "inputs": {"username": "example"}}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "credential_type": 1,
    "description": "",
    "id": 1,
    ...
```

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"user": N, "credential_type": 15, "name": "My Hashi Credential", "inputs": {"url": "https://vault.example.org", "token": "vault-token", "api_version": "v2"}}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "credential_type": 15,
    "description": "",
    "id": 2,
    ...
```

3.  Link the Machine Credential to the HashiCorp Vault Credential:

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/1/input_sources/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"source_credential": 2, "input_field_name": "password", "metadata": {"secret_path": "/kv/my-secret", "secret_key": "password"}}'
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
```


HashiCorp Vault SSH Secrets Engine
----------------------------------

Ascender supports signing public keys via HashiCorp Vault's SSH Secrets Engine
(https://www.vaultproject.io/api/secret/ssh/)

The following example illustrates how to configure a Machine Credential to sign
a public key using HashiCorp Vault:

1.  Look up the ID of the Machine and HashiCorp Vault Signed SSH Credential
    types (in this example, `1` and `16`):

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credential_types/?name=Machine" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
    "results": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "url": "/api/v2/credential_types/1/",
            "name": "Machine",
            ...
```

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credential_types/?name__startswith=HashiCorp" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
    "results": [
        {
            "id": 16,
            "url": "/api/v2/credential_types/16/",
            "name": "HashiCorp Vault Signed SSH",
```

2.  Create a Machine and a HashiCorp Vault Credential:

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"user": N, "credential_type": 1, "name": "My SSH", "inputs": {"username": "example", "ssh_key_data": "RSA KEY DATA"}}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "credential_type": 1,
    "description": "",
    "id": 1,
    ...
```

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"user": N, "credential_type": 16, "name": "My Hashi Credential", "inputs": {"url": "https://vault.example.org", "token": "vault-token"}}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "credential_type": 16,
    "description": "",
    "id": 2,
    ...
```

3.  Link the Machine Credential to the HashiCorp Vault Credential:

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/1/input_sources/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"source_credential": 2, "input_field_name": "password", "metadata": {"public_key": "UNSIGNED PUBLIC KEY", "secret_path": "/ssh/", "role": "example-role"}}'
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
```

4. Associate the Machine Credential with a Job Template.  When the Job Template
   is run, Ascender will use the provided HashiCorp URL and token to sign the
   unsigned public key data using the HashiCorp Vault SSH Secrets API.
   Ascender will generate an `id_rsa` and `id_rsa-cert.pub` on the fly and
   apply them using `ssh-add`.

Commit message:

Change everything to "climber" as a test

docs/credentials/credential_plugins.md, after:

Credential Plugins
==================

By default, sensitive credential values (such as SSH passwords, SSH private
keys, API tokens for cloud services, etc.) in climber are stored in the climber database
after being encrypted with a symmetric encryption cipher utilizing AES-256 in
CBC mode alongside a SHA-256 HMAC.

Alternatively, climber supports retrieving secret values from third-party secret
management systems, such as HashiCorp Vault and Microsoft Azure Key Vault.
These external secret values will be fetched on demand every time they are
needed (generally speaking, immediately before running a playbook that needs
them).

Configuring Secret Lookups
--------------------------

When configuring climber to pull a secret from a third party system, there are
generally three steps.

Here is an example of creating an (1) climber Machine Credential with
a static username, `example-user` and (2) an externally-sourced secret from
HashiCorp Vault Key/Value system which will populate the (3) password field on
the Machine Credential:

1.  Create the Machine Credential with a static username, `example-user`.

2.  Create a second credential used to _authenticate_ with the external
    secret management system (in this example, specifying a URL and an
    OAuth2.0 token _to access_ HashiCorp Vault)

3.  _Link_ the `password` field for the Machine Credential to the external
    system by specifying the source (in this example, the HashiCorp Credential)
    and metadata about the path (e.g., `/some/path/to/my/password/`).

Note that you can perform these lookups on *any* field for any non-external
credential, including those with custom credential types. You could just as
easily create an AWS Credential and use lookups to retrieve the Access Key and
Secret Key from an external secret management system. External credentials
cannot have lookups applied to their fields.

Writing Custom Credential Plugins
---------------------------------

Credential Plugins in climber are just importable Python functions that are
registered using setuptools entrypoints
(https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#dynamic-discovery-of-services-and-plugins)

Example plugins officially supported in climber can be found in the source code at
`awx.main.credential_plugins`.

For instructions on writing and installing your own custom credential plugin, see: https://github.com/ansible/awx-custom-credential-plugin-example

Programmatic Secret Fetching
----------------------------
If you want to programmatically fetch secrets from a supported external secret
management system (for example, if you wanted to compose an climber database connection
string in `/etc/tower/conf.d/postgres.py` using an external system rather than
storing the password in plaintext on your disk), doing so is fairly easy:

```python
from awx.main.credential_plugins import hashivault
hashivault.hashivault_kv_plugin.backend(
    url='https://hcv.example.org',
    token='some-valid-token',
    api_version='v2',
    secret_path='/path/to/secret',
    secret_key='dbpass'
)
```

Supported Plugins
=================

HashiCorp Vault KV
------------------

climber supports retrieving secret values from HashiCorp Vault KV
(https://www.vaultproject.io/api/secret/kv/)

The following example illustrates how to configure a Machine Credential to pull
its password from a HashiCorp Vault:

1.  Look up the ID of the Machine and HashiCorp Vault Secret Lookup Credential
    types (in this example, `1` and `15`):

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credential_types/?name=Machine" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
    "results": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "url": "/api/v2/credential_types/1/",
            "name": "Machine",
            ...
```

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credential_types/?name__startswith=HashiCorp" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
    "results": [
        {
            "id": 15,
            "url": "/api/v2/credential_types/15/",
            "name": "HashiCorp Vault Secret Lookup",
            ...
```

2.  Create a Machine and a HashiCorp Vault Credential:

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"user": N, "credential_type": 1, "name": "My SSH", "inputs": {"username": "example"}}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "credential_type": 1,
    "description": "",
    "id": 1,
    ...
```

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"user": N, "credential_type": 15, "name": "My Hashi Credential", "inputs": {"url": "https://vault.example.org", "token": "vault-token", "api_version": "v2"}}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "credential_type": 15,
    "description": "",
    "id": 2,
    ...
```

3.  Link the Machine Credential to the HashiCorp Vault Credential:

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/1/input_sources/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"source_credential": 2, "input_field_name": "password", "metadata": {"secret_path": "/kv/my-secret", "secret_key": "password"}}'
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
```


HashiCorp Vault SSH Secrets Engine
----------------------------------

climber supports signing public keys via HashiCorp Vault's SSH Secrets Engine
(https://www.vaultproject.io/api/secret/ssh/)

The following example illustrates how to configure a Machine Credential to sign
a public key using HashiCorp Vault:

1.  Look up the ID of the Machine and HashiCorp Vault Signed SSH Credential
    types (in this example, `1` and `16`):

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credential_types/?name=Machine" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
    "results": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "url": "/api/v2/credential_types/1/",
            "name": "Machine",
            ...
```

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credential_types/?name__startswith=HashiCorp" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
    "results": [
        {
            "id": 16,
            "url": "/api/v2/credential_types/16/",
            "name": "HashiCorp Vault Signed SSH",
```

2.  Create a Machine and a HashiCorp Vault Credential:

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"user": N, "credential_type": 1, "name": "My SSH", "inputs": {"username": "example", "ssh_key_data": "RSA KEY DATA"}}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "credential_type": 1,
    "description": "",
    "id": 1,
    ...
```

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"user": N, "credential_type": 16, "name": "My Hashi Credential", "inputs": {"url": "https://vault.example.org", "token": "vault-token"}}'

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "credential_type": 16,
    "description": "",
    "id": 2,
    ...
```

3.  Link the Machine Credential to the HashiCorp Vault Credential:

```shell
~ curl -sik "https://awx.example.org/api/v2/credentials/1/input_sources/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"source_credential": 2, "input_field_name": "password", "metadata": {"public_key": "UNSIGNED PUBLIC KEY", "secret_path": "/ssh/", "role": "example-role"}}'
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
```

4. Associate the Machine Credential with a Job Template.  When the Job Template
   is run, climber will use the provided HashiCorp URL and token to sign the
   unsigned public key data using the HashiCorp Vault SSH Secrets API.
   climber will generate an `id_rsa` and `id_rsa-cert.pub` on the fly and
   apply them using `ssh-add`.
